# Mathematical_Pattern_Recognition_EE559
My coursework Mathematical Pattern Recognition EE559 under Professor Keith Jenkins

# Classification of Hand Postures Project
Summary description: “5 types of hand postures from 12 users were recorded using unlabeled markers on fingers of a glove in a motion capture environment” [1]. A Vicon capture camera system was used in an indoor environment to obtain the data. The pattern recognition problem is, given the position of the markers on the glove, predict the hand posture.
Challenging aspects: Because the markers are unlabeled, the input data (features) only record marker positions relative to a reference point on the glove. Which glove-finger each marker was on, (and which marker it is on the glove-finger), is not known. Additionally, some of the markers are typically occluded by other fingers or other portions of the hand, so that the number of markers recorded varies from one input data point to another. Also, one subject contributes many data points (many captures of a hand posture), so extra care must be taken in the creation of training, validation, and test sets.

Comment: There are different ways to define the pattern recognition problem on this dataset.For our class project, we will treat this as a user-independent posture recognition problem (as has been done in the literature). So the goal is to be able to classify the posture, for (any) users that have not been trained on. Data description: Full dataset posted on the UCI ML Archive [1]  has N_Total=78095, C=5, from 14 users*. Number of input attributes per data point: varies from 9 to 36.

The picture shows “the glove used as the data source…. The axes of the local coordinate system based upon the rigid pattern are shown” [2]. The large dots are the markers. The reference point used for the local coordinate system is at the origin of the axes shown. Required training and test sets: A downsampled training set and separate test set have been posted on D2L. *Two of the users (users 4 and 7) have been removed before preparing all the posted datasets, because of the small number of data points for each of those users. also that there is no user 3. The required D2L-posted datasets are D_Test which has data from 3 users (with N_Test = 21099), and D_Train which has data from the other 9 users with 1500 data points per user (N_Train = 13500). (The first column in each of the D2L datasets is the record(data point) number from the original UCI-posted dataset; you are unlikely to need these and can safely omit them.) For the class project, you are required to use D_Train and D_Test as partitioned, so that everyone’s test-set accuracy can be compared fairly. (You are free to further divide D_Train as you wish for cross-validation, etc.)

Optional training set: You can optionally also train and on a larger set (same users as D_Train but more data points (posture captures) per user). This larger training set includes all the data available in the original UCI ML Archive dataset, for users in D_Train. This set is also posted on D2L as D_Train_large (with N_Train_large = 56125). Note that in D_Train_large, the number of data points per user varies. Of course, the compute time will be substantially larger for these, so you may need to revise your code or approach.
